So, far we've talked about the simple counting of words.
In any language certain words tend to be more common than others,
so naturally it would be useful to reduce
the importance of frequent words in our bag of words.
This can be done through the re-weighing method
called term frequency inverse document frequency.
The idea is that we can shape the importance of repeated words within a single document,
while reducing the impact of common words among a collection of documents.
Let's review this concept in more detail.
Normally in a bag of words,
the weight is just the number of times this word appears in the document.
So, the simplest term frequency or tf is just the frequency of the word
w in the document d represented here as f sub wd.
Here's a table that shows you what the term frequency is given a word frequency.
A lot of times certain words are repeated many times,
and we don't want these words to overwhelm the presence of other words,
so it is useful to apply a logarithm to the equation.
Now, we see that the term frequency waits
for the repeated words are substantially reduced.
There is another issue where we have longer documents,
all the workouts are expected to be larger naturally.
When analyzing financial documents,
we often don't care too much about how long document is,
so it's useful to normalize this term frequencies in some ways.
We can do this by looking at the average word count a sub d for a document,
and we can divide the term frequency by
the term frequency for the average word frequency.
And now the term frequency is normalized.
So far the term frequency only involves a single document.
We still need to reduce the impact of common words that appear in multiple documents.
To do this, we include the inverse document frequency or idf.
The simplest possibility for idf for a given word is
just the inverse of the fraction of the documents containing that word.
Suppose we have 100 documents and we have a list of words
with a number of appearances given by the document frequency df.
The corresponding idf is shown in the table.
We see that the idf is larger for more unique words and smaller for common words.
Again, it is useful to add a logarithm to reduce the impact of very large idf.
Now, all the idf values are closer together.
Sometimes we also add one to the idea of equation so that we avoid zero idea values.
The choice is up to you.
Using the tf-idf combination,
we can convert a collection of documents into a collection of
numbers or document vectors for further processing.
Given that tf-idf is based on heuristics,
there are many possible combinations we can use,
and here are some examples.
Which ones works the best?
The only real way to find out is by experimentation.